The next thing you should know about strings is that they are indexed every character in a string is
assigned a corresponding number based off of its position in the string.
So they go from left to right.
Starting from zero.
So the first character in a string is always at position 0.
Or it has an index of 0 and then it goes up to the end of the string incrementing each character.
So in the case of chicken which is a seven character string one two three four five six seven the lowest
index is zero as always.
And the greatest index for that last n or the only n is 6.
So these are really useful for a variety of reasons but largely for some of the methods we're about
to see in the next couple of videos where we can pass in indices to search for portions of a string
or to copy portions of a string into a new variable.
Things like that.
There's one other thing I'd like to show you which is every string has a property called length.
We haven't really talked about properties.
Properties are just values we can access so we can ask for length off of hello what is Hello Dot length.
It gives us 5.
That is the number of characters 1 2 3 4 5.
If I have elo elo Well well well well well length I have no idea what we'll get 13 we have 13 characters
and just so we're clear here every single character in a string matters and is counted so not just letters
or numbers but spaces.
There's also a period in there it was added automatically by chrome and I hit two spaces but that is
10 characters.
Even though this has one traditional character what we would call a character it's 10 characters long
in JavaScript land.
So length is something that we can access if we need it.
But let's go back to these indices.
So let's make a variable we'll go with let my song equals Surfin USA.
I think there's an apostrophe there.
So good thing I use double quotes so you can put that single quote there and if we look at my song length
it has a length of eleven.
The next piece of syntax I'll show you is how we can use those indices to access individual characters.
So if I want the very first character of this string here's some new syntax we use square brackets and
we pass in a number corresponding to the position.
So index of zero should be the first character which is s index of 1.
Gives me you index of 2 and so on.
Now if we take the length again which is eleven what happens when I try and access my song square brackets
eleven.
We get a value called undefined so we're going to talk more about undefined and another primitive called
No but undefined means there's nothing there.
There isn't a character at index eleven or for that matter index one hundred and ten.
It's the same exact scenario it's a different number but neither of them exists in our string.
So the length is always one greater than the last index in our case length was eleven.
So the greatest index that we have is ten that gives us uppercase.
Strings are not the only things that are indexed by position in JavaScript.
We'll see arrays later on which use the exact same syntax.
They also have a length.
So it's a pattern that comes up more than once.
Let's say I had some long variable with some gibberish in it.
Oh I messed myself up there.
This works though.
And if I wanted to access that last character I could do this gibberish of gibberish dot length minus
one and that will give me the very last character find the length the string whatever it is.
Subtract one and use that as an index and we get this character there.
One less thing to know about strings and indices if we have let's go back to our fave song variable.
If I wanted to change this Let's say I want to change the uppercase s to a uppercase D for Dauphine
USA.
If I tried to do that fave song of zero equals D.
We look at fave song it's still Surfin USA so we can actually change strings this way.
Strings are immutable in JavaScript meaning that the individual value is not changeable in some other
languages you can manipulate one character at a time.
If we wanted to create a string that was Irfan USA plus a D at the beginning we would have to make a
brand new string and a new variable and take D and then add it to this substring which we haven't seen
a to do yet.
So just know that if you're coming from another programming language or if it seems logical to you that
you should be able to change individual characters you cannot do that in a given string that string
is the same it's immutable.